# Naming Convention

## CLI Reader Folder

<!-- TODO change the title name -->

The folder structure should be structured as following:

```
.
└── Root Folder
    ├── tutorial_name.md
    ├── tutorial_name.html
    ├── package-info.json
    └── resources
        ├── entry.py
        ├── supply.py
        └── graph1.json
```

<!--
# Root Folder
## tutorial_name.md
## tutorial_name.html
## package-info.json
## resources
### entry.py
### supply.py
### graph.json
-->

The `Root_Foler` contains everything that's need to generate a tutorial page.

The `tutorial_name.md` is the written tutorial text by writers. When CLI module reads this file, it will generate a html version of the tutorial text, which is named `tutorial_name.md` and saved in the same folder.

The python codes required by this tutorial live under a subfolder named `resources`. The code text in file `entry.py` is the one being displayed in the tutorial code editor. The `supply.py` file should provide the graph object used by `entry.py` file.

The graph json files should also be included in `resources` folder. Those json files will be automatically registered to the database.

After the CLI processes all the data, it will generate a `package-info.json` which contains all the information generated by the files you provided. So next time you can just use the `package-info.json` file to recreate the database.

## Name Database entries.

Every tutorial entry has four unique identifiers, `id`, `url`, `name` and `title`. The id is generate by `uuid.uuid4` serving as the primary key in the tutorial table. `url` is the piece of string appended after the base url `domain-name.edu/tutorials/` so that users can use `domain-name.edu/tutorials/url` to access the tutorial. The name is a human-readable tag serving the same purpose as the `id` field. The `title` is the title of the tutorial, and is different in different language translations. By convention, the `url` should be derived from English version `title` with spaces replaced by `-`. The name should be the same as English version `title`.
